docs/dev/how-to-add-autotracing.md, before:

### 概述
- **类型**：异常事件驱动（tracing/autotracing）
- **功能**：自动跟踪系统异常状态，并在异常发生时再触发抓取现场上下文信息
- **特点**：
    - 当系统出现异常时，`autotracing` 会自动触发，捕获相关的上下文信息
    - 事件数据会实时存储在本地并存储到远端ES，同时你也可以生成Prometheus 统计指标进行观测。
    - 适用于获取现场时**性能开销较大的场景**，例如检测到指标上升到一定阈值、上升速度过快再触发抓取
- **已集成**：cpu 异常使用跟踪（cpu idle）、D状态跟踪（dload）、容器内外部争抢（waitrate）、内存突发分配（memburst）、磁盘异常跟踪（iotracer）

### 如何添加 Autotracing ？
`AutoTracing` 只需实现 `ITracingEvent` 接口并完成注册，即可将事件添加到系统中。
>`AutoTracing` 与 `Event` 类型在框架实现上没有任何区别，只是针对不同的场景进行了实际应用的区分。

```go
// ITracingEvent represents a autotracing or event
type ITracingEvent interface {
    Start(ctx context.Context) error
}
```

#### 1. 创建结构体
```go
type exampleTracing struct{}
```

#### 2. 注册回调函数
```go
func init() {
    tracing.RegisterEventTracing("example", newExample)
}

func newExample() (*tracing.EventTracingAttr, error) {
    return &tracing.EventTracingAttr{
        TracingData: &exampleTracing{},
        Internal:    10, // 再次开启 tracing 的间隔时间 seconds
        Flag:        tracing.FlagTracing, // 标记为 tracing 类型； | tracing.FlagMetric（可选）
    }, nil
}
```

#### 3. 实现接口 ITracingEvent
```go
func (t *exampleTracing) Start(ctx context.Context) error {
    // detect your care about 
    ...

    // 存储数据到 ES 和 本地
    storage.Save("example", ccontainerID, time.Now(), tracerData)
}
```

另外也可同时实现接口 Collector 以 Prometheus 格式输出 （可选）

```go
func (c *exampleTracing) Update() ([]*metric.Data, error) {
    // from tracerData to prometheus.Metric 
    ...

    return data, nil
}
```

在项目 `core/autotracing` 目录下已集成了多种实际场景的 `autotracing` 示例，以及框架提供的丰富底层接口，包括 bpf prog，map 数据交互、容器信息等，更多详情可参考对应代码实现。

Commit message:

docs: add English document for docs/dev/how-to-add-autotracing
Signed-off-by: Xiaomeng Wang wangxiaomeng@kylinos.cn

docs/dev/how-to-add-autotracing.md, after:

English | [简体中文](./how-to-add-autotracing_CN.md)

### Overview
- **Type**：Exception event-driven（tracing/autotracing）
- **Function**：Automatically tracks system abnormal states and triggers context information capture when exceptions occur
- **Characteristics**：
    - When system abnormalities occur, `autotracing` automatically triggers and captures relevant context information
    - Event data is stored locally in real-time and also sent to remote ES, while you can also generate Prometheus metrics for observation
    - Suitable for **significant performance overhead**， such as triggering capture when detecting metrics rising above certain thresholds or rising too rapidly
- **Already Integrated**：abnormal usage tracking (cpu idle), D-state tracking (dload), container internal/external contention (waitrate), sudden memory allocation (memburst), disk abnormal tracking (iotracer)

### How to Add Autotracing
`AutoTracing` only requires implementing the `ITracingEvent` interface and completing registration to add events to the system.
>There is no implementation difference between `AutoTracing` and `Event` in the framework; they are only differentiated based on practical application scenarios.

```go
// ITracingEvent represents a autotracing or event
type ITracingEvent interface {
    Start(ctx context.Context) error
}
```

#### 1. Create Structure
```go
type exampleTracing struct{}
```

#### 2. Register Callback Function
```go
func init() {
    tracing.RegisterEventTracing("example", newExample)
}

func newExample() (*tracing.EventTracingAttr, error) {
    return &tracing.EventTracingAttr{
        TracingData: &exampleTracing{},
        Internal:    10, // Interval in seconds before re-enabling tracing
        Flag:        tracing.FlagTracing, // Mark as tracing type; | tracing.FlagMetric (optional)
    }, nil
}
```

#### 3. Implement ITracingEvent
```go
func (t *exampleTracing) Start(ctx context.Context) error {
    // detect your care about 
    ...

    // Store data to ES and locally
    storage.Save("example", ccontainerID, time.Now(), tracerData)
}
```

Additionally, you can optionally implement the Collector interface to output in Prometheus format:

```go
func (c *exampleTracing) Update() ([]*metric.Data, error) {
    // from tracerData to prometheus.Metric 
    ...

    return data, nil
}
```

The `core/autotracing` directory in the project has integrated various practical `autotracing` 示examples, along with rich underlying interfaces provided by the framework, including BPF program and map data interaction, container information, etc. For more details, refer to the corresponding code implementations.
