docs/dev/how-to-add-metrcis.md, before:

### 概述

Metrics 类型用于采集系统性能等指标数据，可输出为 Prometheus 格式，作为服务端对外提供数据，通过接口 `/metrics` (`curl localhost:<port>/metrics`) 获取。

- **类型**：指标数据采集
- **功能**：采集各子系统的性能指标数据
- **特点**：
  - metrics 主要用于采集系统的性能指标，如 CPU 使用率、内存使用率、网络等，适合用于监控系统的性能指标，支持实时分析和长期趋势观察。
  - 指标数据可以来自常规 procfs/sysfs 采集，也可以从 tracing (autotracing, event) 类型生成指标数据
  - Prometheus 格式输出，便于无缝集成到 Prometheus 观测体系
 
- **已集成**：
    - cpu (sys, usr, util, load, nr_running...)
    - memory（vmstat, memory_stat, directreclaim, asyncreclaim...）
    - IO (d2c, q2c, freeze, flush...)
    - 网络（arp, socket mem, qdisc, netstat, netdev, socketstat...）

### 如何添加统计指标

只需实现 `Collector` 接口并完成注册，即可将指标添加到系统中。

```go
type Collector interface {
    // Get new metrics and expose them via prometheus registry.
    Update() ([]*Data, error)
}
```

#### 1. 创建结构体
在 `core/metrics` 目录下创建实现 `Collector` 接口的结构体：

```go
type exampleMetric struct{
}
```

#### 2. 注册回调函数
```go
func init() {
    tracing.RegisterEventTracing("example", newExample)
}

func newExample() (*tracing.EventTracingAttr, error) {
    return &tracing.EventTracingAttr{
        TracingData: &exampleMetric{},
        Flag: tracing.FlagMetric, // 标记为 Metric 类型
    }, nil
}

```

#### 3. 实现 `Update` 方法

```go
func (c *exampleMetric) Update() ([]*metric.Data, error) {
    // do something
    ...
	return []*metric.Data{
		metric.NewGaugeData("example", value, "description of example", nil),
	}, nil

}
```

在项目 `core/metrics` 目录下已集成了多种实际场景的 `Metrics` 示例，以及框架提供的丰富底层接口，包括 bpf prog, map 数据交互、容器信息等，更多详情可参考对应代码实现。

Commit message:

docs: add English document for docs/dev/how-to-add-metrcis
Signed-off-by: Xiaomeng Wang wangxiaomeng@kylinos.cn

docs/dev/how-to-add-metrcis.md, after:

English | [简体中文](./how-to-add-metrcis_CN.md)

### Overview

The Metrics type is used to collect system performance and other indicator data. It can output in Prometheus format, serving as a data provider through the `/metrics` (`curl localhost:<port>/metrics`) .

- **Type**：Metrics collection
- **Function**：Collects performance metrics  from various subsystems
- **Characteristics**：
  - Metrics are primarily used to collect system performance metrics such as CPU usage, memory usage, network statistics, etc. They are suitable for monitoring system performance and support real-time analysis and long-term trend observation.
  - Metrics can come from regular procfs/sysfs collection or be generated from tracing types (autotracing, event).
  - Outputs in Prometheus format for seamless integration into the Prometheus observability ecosystem.
 
- **Already Integrated**：
    - cpu (sys, usr, util, load, nr_running...)
    - memory（vmstat, memory_stat, directreclaim, asyncreclaim...）
    - IO (d2c, q2c, freeze, flush...)
    - Network（arp, socket mem, qdisc, netstat, netdev, socketstat...）

### How to Add Statistical Metrics

Simply implement the `Collector` interface and complete registration to add metrics to the system.

```go
type Collector interface {
    // Get new metrics and expose them via prometheus registry.
    Update() ([]*Data, error)
}
```

#### 1. Create a Structure
Create a structure that implements the `Collector` interface in the `core/metrics` directory:

```go
type exampleMetric struct{
}
```

#### 2. Register Callback Function
```go
func init() {
    tracing.RegisterEventTracing("example", newExample)
}

func newExample() (*tracing.EventTracingAttr, error) {
    return &tracing.EventTracingAttr{
        TracingData: &exampleMetric{},
        Flag: tracing.FlagMetric, // Mark as Metric type
    }, nil
}

```

#### 3. Implement the `Update` Method

```go
func (c *exampleMetric) Update() ([]*metric.Data, error) {
    // do something
    ...
	return []*metric.Data{
		metric.NewGaugeData("example", value, "description of example", nil),
	}, nil

}
```

The `core/metrics` directory in the project has integrated various practical  `Metrics` examples, along with rich underlying interfaces provided by the framework, including BPF program and map data interaction, container information, etc. For more details, refer to the corresponding code implementations.
